---  
share: true  
title: "Colombia La Reserva from Camber Coffee"  
---  
up :: [∴ Coffee Journal](./%E2%88%B4-Coffee-Journal.md)  
  
# Colombia La Reserva from Camber Coffee  
  
Colombia La Reserva, roasted by **Camber Coffee** on February 14th. Tasted on February 22nd. This lot is 100% **Chiroso** variety, with anerobic fermentation and honey-style processing. Produced by Juan Filipe from Finca La Reserva at 1,900 MASL. This coffee was featured by Fellow Drops.   
  
# The Review  
  
## Smell  
A bit of a shapeshifter, the brewed cup initially smelled like warm, moist, densely packed brown sugar with a side of nougat. As the cup opens up a bit, things seem more fruited overall. There are fresh berries, raisins, and an edgy aromatic note that is a bit like cedar.  
  
## Taste  
The very promising first sip reveals a wine-like acidity and a long carmelly finish. The coffee arrives onto the palate softly and quietly at first. It's not long though and delightful acidity --- tasting like a bouquet of oranges, raspberries, and spices --- floats onto the palate and just hangs there for longer than one might expect. Throughout its presence your attention bounces from fresh fruit to mulled spices and back again. It's a bit similar to the way a lively red wine can float around the palate for quite some time. If your search for substantive body you don't find much. The finish is clean and long, it somehow manages to be slightly sweet without being dry, dirty, or roasty.  
  
## Thoughts  
This is my first time trying something from **Camber Coffee** and it certainly seems like they've handled this roast very well. A unique coffee experience is put front and center. The coffee doesn't taste roasty but it also isn't so light to attract complaints. This is also the first time I had ever heard of the **Chiroso** variety. I did not have high hopes for being able to understand it's uniqueness given the anerobic fermentation and honey processing that the coffee received. I was pleasantly surprised in this regard because at very least the coffee didn't taste like a stereotypical anerobic or a stereotypical honey. I suppose the exaggerated acidity could be attributed in part to an anerobic fermentation but overall I'm lead to believe that **Chiroso** can deliver a delicious, winey acidity experience. What helped it even more was that even with that very bold fruited acidity, it was not one dimensional. The mulled spice notes gave gravity and depth to the acidity. In some ways I was reminded of Kenyan coffees from times past. Overall, I really enjoyed Colombia La Reserva from **Camber Coffee**. Given how they seemed to handle this coffee, I wouldn't hesitate to order from them again. As far as **Chiroso** goes, well I need a sample size larger than 1 to get a handle on its *spirit*, but I like what I'm tasting so far.