---  
share: true  
title: "Geometry from Onxy Coffee Lab"  
comments: true  
---  
# Geometry   
This blend from **Onyx Coffee Lab** features a washed process Ethiopian and Colombian. It's roasted on the lighter side of their normal range. The tasting notes have it sporting berries, stone fruit, early grey, honeysuckle, describing it as "round".  
  
# The Review  
  
## Smell  
The cup is complex and dainty. A macadamia butter base releases small notes of honey, lemon, and chamomile at various times. As soon as one note is observed, the senses are pulled to the next.  
  
## Taste  
The first sip nuanced slap in the face. First a citric acidity flows onto the palate --- completelty reversing the dainty character of the nose --- but as soon as you realize what's there it's backing off,  pulling you into an idyllic European meadow where you are surrounded by brief alternating whiffs of honey, flowers, and sweet fresh air. The slap + pull dulls as the cup cools to reveal a tight rope balancing act of sweet, tart and savory.   
  
## Thoughts  
Advertised as *delicate*, Geometry from **Onyx Coffee Lab** is an interesting coffee. I simplistic floral notes and a light body. Instead, what I'm guessing is the Colombian component of the coffee woke me up and made me take this coffee more seriously. Everything about this coffee --- the apparent quality of the greens, the complexity, the character --- went beyond what I expected. Accomplishing this level of depth with coffees that one is willing to blend is quite the feat. **Onyx Coffee Lab** continues to impress.