---  
share: true  
title: "Colombia Juan Martin (Castillo) from Intelligentsia"  
comments: true  
---  
up :: [∴ Coffee Journal](./%E2%88%B4-Coffee-Journal.md)  
  
# Colombia Juan Martin (Castillo)  
This pure Castillo lot roasted by **Intelligentsia** comes from [Finca Juan Martin](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EbAymyzpyww) in Cuaca, Colombia. It is said to feature *novel* anerobic fermentation. It was grown at 2,050 MASL and harvested mid-2022. While available, the coffee can be purchased directly at [inteligentsia.com](https://www.intelligentsia.com/products/colombia-juan-martin-castillo).  
  
# The Review  
  
## Smell  
The dry aroma raised eyebrows and the brewing fragrance raised my spirits. There was a distinct, intense fruited vibe that does not directly map to existing fruits. It reminded me of white grape juice combined with pineapple gummy bears and an undercurrent of overly ripe blueberries. I suspect the anerobic fermentation to be doing much of the work here. Once brewed, things are much more balanced --- something between caramel and molasses blends faint blueberry and a hidden layer of pine.  
  
## Taste  
The first sip is truly strange. Alien fruits explode onto the tongue, ensconced in a powdery mouthfeel, then it all quickly changes gears to something that on first taste I could only describe as sweet barbeque. Upon further review, the alien fruit remains predominant. Aspects of it remind of fermented fruit but it really tastes nothing like the fermented fruits found in dry processed coffees. I would describe the taste as a cross between cherries and pineapple gummy bears. It is very characteristic of anerobic fermentation. As you sit with the alien fruit, waves of maple syrup sweetness ebb and flow. The finish is quick and very dry. It comes across as powdery at times. There is a bit of roasted flavor to be found in the finish too -- overall it's like a very dry roasted nut.  
  
## Thoughts  
**Intelligentsia** was my *first love* of the third wave coffee roasters. The first time I walked into one of their Chicago shops and the brewed coffee tasted exactly like the provided notes, I was immediately convinced that a subtler roast can bring amazing things out of coffees. This 100% Castillo lot is a very pure expression of the coffee, albeit one that is heavily influenced by processing. Before I reflect on the latter, I must applaud the former. This is an enjoyable coffee that offers novel flavors that "work". There is balance between that alien fruit and the sweetness, the flavor is interesting and complex enough to bring me back sip after sip. This is good work from **Intelligentsia**.   
  
I must admit now, I don't enjoy how rare excellent washed western hemisphere coffees are among the offerings of hard working roasters. Honey processes and experimental fermentations are *everywhere*. I'm reticent to criticize them directly because coffee *has* to be processed and fermented in one way or another. Washed processing is not even the oldest, original way. And yet, amidst all the experimentation, I am much like some older gentleman who would prefer to sip a European Pilsner and savor its sublime subtleties while the kids chase their IPAs. 