---
share: true
---
up :: [Coffee Journal](./%E2%88%B4-Coffee%20Journal.md)

# Finca La Joya, Prodigal Coffee Roasters

# The Coffee
Tasted on February 13, 2023. My first **Prodigal Coffee** outing, I was very much looking forward to trying this.

|         |                         |
| ------- | ----------------------- |
| Roaster | Prodigal Coffee         |
| Region  | Loja, Ecuador           |
| Variety | Caturra, Bourbon, Pacas |
| Process | Washed                  |

# The Review

## Before Tasting
Both in the appearance of the beans and ground coffee, the roasting treatment appears to be quite light. In the cup there is granny smith apple, pecan, and a bit of brown sugar. 

## Tasting
The first sip is sweet like brown sugar and the body comes across as rather light. Upon further ___ more comes to light. The arrival is dominated by a very pleasant "sweet roll" vibe containing brown sugar, pecans, with perhaps slightly buttery mouthfeel. The components remain but as the development occurs, a very balanced fruit note gingerly steps onto the stage. This mild granny smith apple component is a *little* grassy and a bit tart, but mostly carries the acidity into the sweet roll dominated performance. The acidity brings life to the other flavor components but is not bold -- it does not dominate the show. As the apple component finishes its performance, the curtains begin to close the palate is left with dry nut component, reminiscent of walnut chaff. Those walnut notes hang onto the palate as they slow fade away. 

## Thoughts
This is my first encounter with **Prodigal Coffee**. Being partial to washed coffee from the Western Hemisphere, I had been looking out for such an offering from **Prodigal**. When I saw this Ecuadorian coffee, I ordered immediately. Before receiving the coffee was notified that I would be receiving a refund as this batch may have not met the quality standards that Scott and his team were reaching for. I've never experienced this when ordering roasted coffee. Despite the disappointment that I might be getting something subpar, I was impressed at the honesty portrayed by Scott and the willingness to refund the coffee *even though the subpar batches taste "ok"*.

So what did I think?

Initially, I was reminded of coffee I have enjoyed from Intelligentsia in years past. Some part of my brain is hoping that that Prodigal is a reincarnation of the spirit of Intelligentsia from an earlier age (Scott's connections and experience, the presence of a Probat, etc...) but for now what I can say is that I was reminded of earlier Intelligentsia when I first sipped this cup. What does this mean tangibly? The roast was lighter than the average specialty coffee roaster in America. It trades body for significant clarity of flavor. The roast takes what may not be a very high scoring coffee and gives you high-resolution access to the flavor components present, resulting in something *very enjoyable*. The brown sugar and pecan vibe in the first leg of each sip was my favorite part. 

I qualified the fruit / acidity as *granny smith* apple not because of a very bold tartness, but because there was a bit of a grassy flavor present in the coffee, similar to the skin on a granny smith apple. If I had to guess (which is dangerous), this roast came out a bit less developed than desired, hence the aforementioned refund. 

Scott Rao starting a coffee roasting company is an exciting development from my perspective. To be able to watch and partake small business journey that someone like Scott --- who seems to ooze the pursuit of quality and who has set a bar that is chased by hobbyist roasters like me and untold numbers of professionals --- is exciting. He's been quite transparent in his newsletters about the journey as well.  