---  
share: true  
title: "Peru El Puquio from Wonderstate Coffee"  
comments: true  
---  
# Peru El Puquio  
  
Coming from **Wonderstate Coffee**, this organic washed Bourbon was grown in the Cajamarca region of Peru between 1,600 and 2,000 MASL. It was roasted in Wisconsin on solar power. The provided notes emphasize a balance of acidity and sweetness, mentioning a juicy red apple acidity.  
  
# The Review  
  
## Smell  
For being labeled a **Light Roast** the appearance is a bit darker than I would expect. The beans seem to be at the point where they are starting to lose their wrinkles and are smoothing out. While brewing, the grounds gave off a delightful roasted nut fragrance. The aroma of the brewed product is a woody and nutty brown sugar affair. The overall effect is reminiscent of a lived-in log cabin that has been heated by a wood fire for dozens of winters. There char and carbon but a sweetness as well.  
  
## Taste  
As they often do, the first sip shouts into the void: *I am not merely what I smell like*. An apple-like acidity is ever present throughout the cup, like pink bands within an inky dark slab of granite. There isn't so much an arrival that is distinct from the development --- from the start there is roasted chestnut, shape-shift bands of apple-acidity, brown sugar, and toast. The acidity is less the center of attention and more of an integrated component of a cup that is vibing on roasty tones that seemingly belong next a fireplace. What the coffee lacks, in being clean and sparkly, it provides ample body and roast tones. The finish leans towards the roasted nut side of things, it's dry and quite long.   
  
## Thoughts  
The arrival of this Peru was good timing, as days before I had just finished the first test roast of 10 lbs. of a different Peruvian coffee I had purchased. The result of my roast was vary more roasty on first cupping than I expected given the degree of roast that I applied. This specimen from **Wonderstate Coffee** is similarly roasty yet still manages to be enjoyable. The entry for Peru in the World Atlas of Coffee supports the perception that lots coming out of Peru might tend to be flatter and fatter (less sparkle, more body). I appreciate the focus on sustainability and working in right relationship with producers that is championed by **Wonderstate**. While I don't think this cup is winning any awards, I'm not sure that is a roasting problem. Beyond that, the approach taken by the roaster and producer is laudable.   
